  SENTIMENT ANALYSIS  
  
 
 
 
 
 
PROJECT  SYNOPSIS  
 
FOR  THE  FULLFILLMENT  OF 
 
 
 
MASTER  OF APPLICATIONS  
 
 
 
 
SUBMITTED  BY: 
 
ISHIKA 
BAHUKHANDI  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GRAPHIC  ERA  HILL  UNIVERSITY , 
DEHRADUN  
 
Graphic  Era Hill University,  Dehradun  
Mini  Project  Synopsis  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Name  of Student:  Ishika Bahukhandi  
2. Enrolment  No. : PV-22010185  
3. Class  Roll No. : 24 
4. E-mail,  Mobile  No.: ishikabahukhandi563 @gmail.com , 7505877121  
5. Branch  :  NA 
6.   Batch  :  2022 -24 
7. Proposed  Topic  :  Sentiment Analysis  
 
8. Team  Size and Details:  1 Member  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What is Sentiment Analysis?  
 
 
Sentiment analysis is nothing, it just recognizes the sentiment behind the text. It is often used by businesses 
to detect sentiment in social data, product reputation, and understanding customers.  
 
This is a Machine Learning project, in which with the help of machine learning algorithms and techniques 
we will classify the sentiment of text that is positive, negative, or neutral . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Sentiment Analysis  
 
Prerequisites  
 
Basic knowledge of deep learning with Keras library and  Python  programming  are required  to run this 
amazing  project.  
You need to install certain libraries in your system to implement the python sentiment analysis project. The 
required libraries are:  
▪ Numpy (pip install numpy)  
▪ Pandas (pip install pandas)  
▪ Matplotlib (pip install matplotlib)  
▪ Natural language Processing toolkit (NLTK) (pip install nltk)  
▪ Sklearn (pip install sklearn)  
   
 Methodology/  Planning  of work  
 
 
1. Import  libraries  and dataset.  
At the project  beginning,  we import  all the needed  modules  for training  our model.  We can easily  
import the dataset and start working on that because the Keras library already contains many  
datasets  . 
2. The Data  Preprocessing  
 
 we need to perform some basic operations and  process  the data to make  it ready for  our neural  
network.  
3. Create  the model  
 
Its time for the creation  of the CNN  model  for this Python -based  data science  project.  4.Train  
the model  
To start the training  of the model  we can simply  call the model.fit()  function  of Keras.  
5.Evaluate  the model  
To evaluate  how accurate  our model  works,  we have  around  30 columns in our dataset.     
 Technology  / Tools  / Language  / Facilities  required  for proposed  
work  
 
 
Technology  : Machine Learning  
Tools: Pycharm Python IDE  
Language  : Python 
 Bibliography  
 
 
 
 
  
1. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/360112442 42 
2. https://www.researchgate .net/profile/Manika_Lamba3/publication/  
3. https://towardsdatascience.com/sentiment -analysis-concept-analysis-and.. 
 
 